# EIP-00001: EigenCALL Instruction

| Author   | eigmax, weber          |
| -------- | ---------------------- |
| Status   | Finished              |
| Type     | Private Smart Contract |
| Category | Core                   |
| Created  | 2021-05-20             |

[toc]

## Abstract

A new built-in instruction in smart contract is introduced to support confidential computing, which enables contract to handle encrypted data. 

## Motivation

The privacy protection of smart contract is becoming more and more important. For instance, the privacy concerns, like  transaction inspection, Identity tracing and the user's behavioral model inference in AMM based DEX, is harassing every DeFi participators.



Privacy protection is becoming the new infrastructure of Web3. Previously, ZCash and Monero provides us an options to hiding transaction's address and amount. And Oasis and Secret network also provide confidential contract. But what the common above is that they are isolated with Ethereum, which is the most prosper developer-friendly crypto ecosystem.  However, privacy protection based on zero-knowledge proof is too pricy. 



This proposal introduces a cheap and relatively developer-friendly method to achieve that goal.

## Specification

### ABI
1. Function signature

   ```solidity
   function eigenCall(bytes calldata) external pure returns (bytes memory);
   ```

2. Inputs

   * `rlp_bytes`: The RLP encoded of a list which contains 4 string elements just like `[operator||num_of_args, arg1, arg2, arg3]`. `operator`, `arg1`, `arg2`, `arg3` are all strings.
      - `operator` can be "add_cipher_cipher", "add_cipher_plain", "sub_cipher_cipher", "sub_cipher_plian", "encrypt", "descrypt", "compare_cipher_cipher", and "compare_cipher_plain"
     - num_of_args: the number of arguments.
     - `arg1`, `arg2`, `arg3` should be operand. According to the kind of operator, they represent different meanings, e.g., if `operator` is "add_cipher_cipher", `arg1` and `arg2` should be ciphers which are hex encoding ECIES cipher; if `operator` is "add_cipher_plian", `arg1` should be ciphers which is hex encoding ECIES cipher, but `arg2` should be plain number
     - The list must contain 4 elements, so if `argn` is not used, it should be set to empty string (that is "")

3. Returns

   * results: The RLP encoded of a string



## Rationale

## Backwards Compatibility

### Dispute Assertion Issue

The eigenCall is executed off-chain as a kind of secure out-soured computing. While outsoured, the computing power provider, namely prover, will generate a signature in TEE or a ZKP in Non-TEE as the assertion for `OneStepProof` .

## TestCases

[eigen-call demo](https://github.com/ieigen/ieigen/blob/main/l2/eigen-tutorials/packages/demo-eigencall/scripts/exec.js)

## Implementation

This instruction is only supported in Layer 2, implemented as a pre-compiled instruction.  And the method to call the instruction is shown as below:

```
    function _call_eigen_call(
        bytes memory arg1,
        bytes memory arg2,
        bytes memory arg3,
        bytes memory arg4
    ) private pure returns (bytes memory) {
        // TODO: Now we use RLP encoding in `ecall`, it'd be better using `abi.encode`
        //       to save gas
        bytes[] memory list;

        list = new bytes[](4);

        list[0] = RLPEncode.encodeBytes(arg1);
        list[1] = RLPEncode.encodeBytes(arg2);
        list[2] = RLPEncode.encodeBytes(arg3);
        list[3] = RLPEncode.encodeBytes(arg4);
        bytes memory input = RLPEncode.encodeList(list);

        bytes memory result = ArbSys(address(100)).eigenCall(input);
        require(_compare_bytes(result, RLPEncode.encodeBytes("")) != true, "Eigencall returns an empty string which means we encounter error" );
        return _rlp_decode_as_bytes(result);
    }
```

## Raionale

It aims to provide pricy and most compatible privacy protection schema for on-chain privacy computing.

## Tests

[eigen-call demo](https://github.com/ieigen/ieigen/blob/main/l2/eigen-tutorials/packages/demo-eigencall/scripts/exec.js)

## Copyright

